(ANA) About two hours from Athens,
in the northern Peloponnese,
is Rira Vineyards, in a landscape
where the mountains and the sea
come together.
The vineyard is located in
Aigialeia, a coastal region
overlooking the Corinthian Gulf.
Rira is often described as one of
the most beautiful vineyards
in Greece.
Today we meet Anastasis,
the vineyards’ owner,
to learn more about this place
and the wine they make here.
Anastasi, thank you for meeting
with us today.
Would you like to tell us a little
bit about yourself and the vineyard?
(ANASTASIS) Hi, of course, welcome.
So, my name is Anastasis.
Welcome to Rira Vineyards.
Rira is the actual name of the place,
so it’s always been called Rira.
The whole area is 120 hectares,
The actual vineyard surface
is 25 hectares
and we also have about
3500 olive trees planted around
the vineyard.
(ANA) Very nice. So, what makes this
place special?
Can you tell us what sets Rira
apart in terms of winemaking?
(ANASTASIS) Yes, of course, it’s
basically everything you can
see around you here.
It’s several elements.
They say that the best winemaker
is actually the weather
and it’s something that you
can practically see here.
So, one element is the close
proximity to the sea which helps
cool down the grapes in the summer.
Another aspect is the
elevation.
The higher up you are, the
better it is for the grapes
because it also cools them down.
Another aspect is the slope,
so that the water actually
free flows
and it doesn’t cause disease
pressure.
Another element is the
mountains you saw before,
the tall mountains of the
Peloponnese, they protect us from
the hot winds from Africa.
And, of course, it’s one of
the few areas in Greece that
actually has a northern aspect,
which means the northern
side of the vineyard is also
a bit cooler,
so we’ve planted accordingly
summer grape varieties.
(ANA) So, where is the North?
(ANASTASIS) Everything you see from
this side is the North.
(ANA) Okay, so, which wine would you
recommend to someone that’s
trying Rira wines for the first time?
(ANASTASIS) Well, I could recommend them all, of course.
But if something would stand out
it would be a local red variety
we have here,
which is called Mavrodafni,
which literally translated means
“black laurel”
and it’s a very typical red
variety from the area, usually done
in a sweet style,
but nowadays it’s done in a
dry style.
(ANA) I see. Well, Anastasi, thank you
so much for meeting us today
and showing us around.
We hope to come back very soon
but before we go, could we meet
the employee of the month?
I would like to hear her thoughts.
(ANASTASIS) Yes, of course, we’ll go
straight to her.
(ANA) Great, let’s go.
(ANASTASIS) And introducing the employee of the month.
Fifi.